---
title: 
date: 
draft: true
tags:
  - pedagogy
---

# Introduction
In this post, I shall be outlining 10 papers at QIP 2024 that caught my attention. The reason for highlighting these 10 papers is that I learned a completely either new concepts, or proof techniques from these papers, which I feel would be useful to my research moving forward.  

## An Exponential Separation Between Quantum Query Complexity and the Polynomial Degree
> Andris Ambainis and Aleksandrs Belovs.

## Non-Linear Transformations of Quantum Amplitudes: Exponential Improvement, Generalization, and Applications
> Arthur Rattew and Patrick Rebentrost.

## Effect of non–unital noise on random circuit sampling
> Bill Fefferman, Soumik Ghosh, Michael Gullans, Kohdai Kuroiwa and Kunal Sharma.

## Quantum Merlin-Arthur and proofs without relative phase
> Roozbeh Bassirian, Bill Fefferman and Kunal Marwaha.   

## On the Pauli Spectrum of QAC0
> Shivam Nadimpalli, Natalie Parham, Francisca Vasconcelos and Henry Yuen.

## Quantum chi-squared tomography and mutual information testing
> Steve Flammia and Ryan O'Donnell.

## A Quantum Speed-Up for Approximating the Top Eigenvector of a Matrix
> Yanlin Chen, András Gilyén and Ronald de Wolf.

## **Local Hamiltonian Problem with succinct ground state is MA-Complete**
> Jiaqing Jiang

## Trade-offs between Entanglement and Communication
> Uma Girish and Srinivasan Arunachalam.

## NLTS Hamiltonians and Strongly-Explicit SoS Lower Bounds from Low-Rate Quantum LDPC Codes
> Louis Golowich and Tali Kaufman.

# Others
- **Learning quantum Hamiltonians at any temperature in polynomial time** by Ainesh Bakshi, Allen Liu, Ankur Moitra and Ewin Tang. 
- **Learning shallow quantum circuits** by Hsin-Yuan Huang, Yunchao Liu, Michael Broughton, Isaac Kim, Anurag Anshu, Zeph Landau and Jarrod McClean.
- **Black-Hole Radiation Decoding is Quantum Cryptography** by Zvika Brakerski.
- **A Unified Theory of Barren Plateaus for Deep Parametrized Quantum Circuits** by Marco Cerezo, Michael Ragone, Bojko N. Bakalov, Frederic Sauvage, Alexander F. Kemper, Carlos Ortiz Marrero and Martin Larocca.
- **The Adjoint Is All You Need: Characterizing Barren Plateaus in Quantum Ansätze** by Enrico Fontana, Dylan Herman, Shouvanik Chakrabarti, Niraj Kumar, Romina Yalovetzky, Jamie Heredge, Shree Hari Sureshbabu and Marco Pistoia.
- **Quantum eigenvalue processing** by Guang Hao Low and Yuan Su.
- **A distribution testing oracle separating QMA and QCMA** by Anand Natarajan and Chinmay Nirkhe.
